I'm not going to waste your time. So,
here's the only Windows optimization
guide you will need in 2025, no matter
if you're using Windows 10 or Windows
11. So, let's get right into it. So, in
the description, you will find this pack
and I want you to go to start here
folder and start with a restore point.
Now, everything inside of here will be
completely safe. However, just in case
that something goes wrong or if you did
not follow the guide properly, this
restore point will be a lifesaver. So
simply click on your Windows drive, go
to configure. Make sure to turn on
system protection and set it to about
5%, then hit okay. Then click on create,
name it anything. I'm going to name it N
and then hit create. So once the restore
point is created, simply close out of it
and we will be disabling the user
account control. The reason for this is
actually because it can mess up with
some of the registry files by not
allowing them to properly overwrite. So
we will be reenabling it at the end of
all this tweaking session. So simply go
ahead and double click on it, hit yes,
and then hit okay. And it does say that
you will need to restart your computer.
So simply go ahead and restart your PC
for this to take effect. Now once you
are back, go into the power plan folder.
And inside of here, the first thing that
you want to do is disable power throat
link. Simply double click, hit yes, and
hit okay. Then do the same thing for the
import power plan. This is necessary to
import the custom power plans that we
have here. And now if we go inside of
the plans folder, you will see these
little battery icons next to these power
plans. Now I have provided four of the
best power plans inside of here. And the
one that I personally use is of course
my own. The other one that I recommend
is Corv and also AdamX. Also, I want to
point out that I have taken a lot of
things from Corv's guide. So, of course,
his channel link will be down in the
description, but I have added a lot of
my own things in this. So, make sure
that you follow along properly. So, I'm
simply going to go ahead and double
click on my own power plan. And now it
should be imported. I'm going to go back
and open up the power plans inside of
here under hide additional plans. Now,
it should have my own plan. So, I'm
going to simply click on it and it's
active. Going back into the pack, open
up the CPU folder. And inside of here,
the first thing that you want to do is
disable Spectre and Meltdown. These are
actually the security patches that are
no longer required by Windows since most
modern browsers come with their own
security patches. So these are basically
just hogging up the CPU resources
without actually needing them. So we're
going to be going ahead and disabling
these and then we will be unpacking the
CPU cores. Now for this one, of course,
you want to use the unpack CPU cores. So
simply right click on it, run it as
administrator and once it opens up, make
sure that this is set to the unparked or
click on unpark all. Simply hit apply,
okay, and then close. Now for some of
you, this might not work. In that case,
you will need to go ahead and install
park control setup.64 one. Simply right
click, run it as admin. Okay, agree.
Next, next. And once it opens up, all
you would need to do is select your
power plan. Click on show advance. Make
sure that all of these are set to 100%
and disabled. Hit apply and then hit
okay. Now, these are all the CPU
optimizations. However, if you want to
go even further, you can go into the
advanced folder. And here I have the AMD
CPU and the Intel CPU overclocking
guides, which you can follow step by
step to overclock your CPUs. Now, as I
said, this is for advanced users, but
anyone can learn to overclock, and this
is going to give you the most
performance if you actually do it right.
So, make sure to actually go ahead and
read these guides, even if you don't
want to overclock, just to know how much
of an impact it can make on your CPU
performance. Let's go back to the pack
and go into the AMD, Nvidia, and Intel
tweaks. And inside of here, the first
thing is actually the driver
uninstaller. And this is the best way to
actually uninstall your current drivers
and install them in the right way, which
I will be showing you in a bit. So,
simply what you would do is run this as
administrator. It might automatically
close some programs such as MSI After
Burner. So, simply hit okay. And you
don't actually need to be in safe mode.
It's completely safe to do this in
normal mode, too. So, simply hit okay
once again. Select your GPU drivers. It
will automatically detect the GPU that
you have, but if it doesn't, simply go
ahead and select the one that you have
and then click on clean and restart.
Now, I'm not going to be doing that for
the sake of the video, but that's what
you would do if you want to completely
and cleanly remove your GPU drivers.
Once you are done, you can go back and
select the GPU that you have. I'm going
to go step by step starting with AMD.
Now, inside of here, what you would do
is first get the AMD drivers, which will
be the latest ones. So once it opens you
would go ahead and click on graphics and
then select the one that you have. Then
simply go ahead and select any series
that you have your graphics card. Click
on submit and then select your Windows
edition. For example, this one and then
simply go ahead and download the latest
driver that is the recommended one and
that would be it. Now once you have
downloaded the driver, you can simply
install them as is. However, if you want
to get the most performance out of your
GPU, you would want to debloat the AMD
drivers so that you can get rid of all
of the useless stuff. So, this is a
complete guide on how you can actually
uninstall the drivers, then go ahead and
debloat your AMD drivers by removing all
of the unnecessary stuff and then
installing them using the device
manager. This will also show you what to
do in case you don't want to strip out
the AMD software. So, simply go ahead
and read through this and follow along
this if you want to strip the AMD driver
out of all of its bloatware. Now, for
the majority of you who don't want to
mess up with the drivers, I would simply
recommend to install it as is. And once
you have installed the driver, whether
normally or whether by debloating it,
here are all of the best AMD driver
settings that you can simply go ahead
and copy all of these best settings
inside of the AMD software. And once you
are done with that, you will need to go
ahead and disable ultra low power state
or ulps. So simply double click on it,
hit yes, hit okay, and this is going to
make sure that the GPU never enters the
ultra low power state mode, which of
course is going to impact the
performance. Then there are the AMD
tweaks. So if I right click and click on
edit here you can see everything it is
going to disable. So it is going to go
ahead and disable actually a lot of
things inside of the class GU ID of the
driver itself. So simply go ahead and
right click on it run it as
administrator and it will say that the
operations were successful and it will
automatically close. Then we can go back
and moving on to the Nvidia users. Now
inside of here you will need to of
course once again get the latest driver
which you can get from their website.
Here you would simply select the
category. Then you would of course go
ahead and select your GPU. Select your
Windows version and then click on find.
And for the Nvidia ones, I recommend you
install game ready drivers and actually
install the ones that are the latest. So
simply go ahead and download this driver
and then we will move on to how to
install it. So for installing the Nvidia
drivers, you want to use NVC clean
install. So right click on it and run it
as admin. Then here what I want you to
do is click on use driver file on desk.
Click on browse and then select the
driver that you downloaded. This is an
older one that I had downloaded. So I'm
going to click on open. Then click on
next. Now if you want the most deep
bloated driver then simply click on next
and that would be it. But if you want to
record your gameplay etc with shadow
play then you would need to select it
then click on next and then it will say
that it will need to select other
components too. Simply hit yes then
click next to click yes once again and
it would have actually selected a lot of
other components. Now click on next once
more and it's going to be preparing the
source and unpacking the driver. So once
it's done unpacking you will be at the
installation tweaks and here you want to
disable installer telemetry and
advertising. Check unattended express
installation and make sure to uncheck
allow automatic reboot if needed. We
will be rebooting it later. Then check
perform a clean installation. Enable
DLSS indicator if you want to show the
DLSS version in game. I personally like
to keep it disabled. Then disable
multiplane overlay. Disable NEL. Then
show expert tweaks. Here disable driver
telemetry. Now I know a lot of people
think that it causes issues but in my
experience it does not. Also disable the
Nvidia HD audio device sleeper timer.
Then enable the MSI mode. Set the
priority to high. disable HDCP or HD
content protection. I have made a
complete video on it if you want to
check it out. And that's it. Now, what
you want to do is click on next. And
here, what you would want to do is
simply click on install and then follow
through this one. And it will
automatically guide you through the
installation process. This is what you
would also of course use if you don't
want to debloat the driver and want to
install it normally. But once you click
on install, it will install the driver.
And since I don't have an Nvidia GPU,
I'm going to close out of this. There's
also a guide on how to properly install
Nvidia drivers here in the written form
by VO, so credit to him, which guides
you through once again how to uninstall
the drivers, how to actually install
them using the Nvan install, which I
just showed you, and what are the things
that you should be doing after
installation, which I will of course be
adding to this Nvidia tweak. So, simply
right click on it and run it as
administrator, and that would be it. So,
once you have run the Nvidia Tweaks.bat
file, simply go ahead and open up the
Nvidia inspector. And here you have two
profiles. one is from Corv and the other
one is mine. What you would want to do
is simply drag one of these profiles
onto the Nvidia profile inspector and it
would automatically apply that. Since I
don't have an Nvidia GPU, of course, it
cannot find the service. So, I'm going
to hit okay. But for you guys with
Nvidia GPUs, it would have successfully
applied the profile and you will have
the best Nvidia control panel settings
pre-applied. Once done, let's go back
and go for the Intel users. And here you
have the best Intel control panel
settings that you can go ahead and use.
So, follow along with these. Simply go
back and open up the MSI After Burner.
Now, this is a software that is used for
overclocking, but we won't be
overclocking inside of this video. I
will actually link a guide on how you
can safely overclock your GPU in the
description, so you can watch that. But
for the sake of this video, we will be
changing some of the settings inside of
here. So, simply open up the After
Burner web page, then go ahead and
download the final version and install
it as you would install any other
software. Once you install it, it will
be in your system tray. Okay. So, simply
right click, click on show, and then
what you want to do is simply go ahead
and click on settings. Then inside of
here, make sure that start with Windows
and start minimized is checked. And then
you can move on. Click on check for
updates and make sure to set it to
never. Then for the AMD users, make sure
that you disable ulps. Once again, the
ultra low power state mode because you
don't want the GPU to enter this power
saving mode so that it can output the
maximum performance. Now once you are
done inside of here go into the fan and
inside of here you can actually leave
the automatic fan curve or you can copy
mine which is this one. I have set it to
around 25 and 50. Then for 60 it's at 70
and then for 80 it's at 100% fan speed.
This is of course not an aggressive fan
speed. If you really want to keep your
system cool and don't mind the fan speed
noise, then you can bump this one up to
right about 60. But this is the one that
I use personally and you can simply go
ahead and copy this one from me. And
also for the fan speed update period,
you want this to be set to 10,000. And
that would be it. Now, if you simply hit
on apply, you can actually hear your fan
speed ramp up. And if you don't like it,
you can simply uncheck this, hit apply
once more, and that would be it. For
monitoring, you can go ahead and install
the revert tuner statistic server, which
comes with the MSI after burner itself
in order to show those benchmarks
alongside your games. So, for me, I only
have the GPU usage, GPU temperature on
the on-creen display, as well as my CPU
temperature and CPU usage. And a few
other things are the RAM usage, the
frame rate, and the frame time. So these
are the things that I always show on my
benchmarks. And you would actually get
these on by checking this tick icon and
then checking the show in oncreen
display. Other than that, there is
actually nothing you want to change
here. Simply hit okay. And this is the
screen that you would use in order to
overclock your GPU, which I do actually
highly recommend to overclock your GPU,
but actually safely. So, I will leave a
guide down below which you can check out
to overclock your GPU safely without
breaking it. Now, we can go ahead and
minimize it and you will need to keep it
running in the background. Let's move on
to the MSI utility. Right click on it
and run it as admin. Now, inside of
here, find your graphics card and make
sure to check the MSI box. Set the
interrupt priority to high and then
click on apply. You can do the same
thing for actually your high
definitionition audio controller. Just
make sure that it does say MSI under
supported modes. Check the MSI box. Set
the priority to high and hit apply. Now
we can close out of this and move on to
the Windows settings. Now for all of
these Windows settings, I am actually
using Windows 10, but all of these will
work the same for Windows 11 as well. So
if you're using Windows 11, simply go
ahead and follow along with me. And if
you cannot find any of the settings
directly, they should be somewhere in
there. You would just need to scroll up
or down a bit. Inside of here, the first
one that I want you to do is go into the
update windows. Make sure that your
Windows is up to date and then pause the
updates for however long you want. This
is because the Windows should not be
updating in the background while you are
gaming. That can have of course
detrimental effects on not only your
latency but the overall performance.
Then go on to delivery optimizations.
Make sure that this is turned off and
click on advanced options. Here select
the percentage option and limit the
bandwidth. Set this to the lowest limit.
Then do the same thing for the upload
settings and set these to the lowest
limit. Once you are done, you can go
back and we can close out of this. Then
go ahead and turn on the hardware
acceleration GPU scheduling. I of course
don't have that option, but you will
have that option inside of here. So,
make sure that you turn it on. Then set
the app preference to desktop apps.
Click on browse. Select your game. In my
case, it's Fortnite. I'm going to hit
add. Then click on options. Then set it
to high performance. Hit save. And you
can close out of this. Moving on to
uninstalling apps. Go through this list
and completely uninstall anything that
you don't want, including all of the
Microsoft apps or Windows apps. Just
make sure that you don't uninstall
something that you would need. For
example, any of these NET frameworks or
even the Visual C++ packages. Another
way that I actually prefer to uninstall
apps is through the control panel. So,
simply go ahead and select anything that
you want to uninstall. Click on the
uninstall button, then hit uninstall,
and voila, it's gone. Moving on to the
privacy settings, make sure that
everything under general is turned off.
Then in speech, make sure that
everything is turned off. Same thing
with inking and typing, diagnostic and
feedback. Then moving on, make sure that
camera is turned on if you actually use
it. Same thing with microphone. And
other than that, simply go ahead and
turn off everything here, especially the
background apps. So for Windows 10
users, you would have this option, but
for Windows 11 users, you actually don't
have this option. So therefore, on
Windows 11, you would actually need to
go inside of every individual app and
turn off its background activity. But
once done here, close out of this and go
into the settings and we will be going
through some of the general settings.
Windows 11 users can of course follow
along. The settings will be similar to
all of the ones that are in Windows 10.
Starting with system, make sure that you
select any of your displays and set the
scale and layout to 100% recommended and
the resolution to whatever you prefer.
Then moving on to notifications and
actions. Make sure that everything here
is unchecked and notifications are
turned off. Focus assist should also be
turned off. For the storage, make sure
that you turn off storage sense because
it can actually give you more space.
However, that would be at the cost of
CPU performance. So, I highly recommend
that you turn this off. Other than that,
everything here should be fine. Let's go
back to home. Let's go to devices. Make
sure to turn off Bluetooth if you don't
actually use it. Go back and move on to
personalization. Then under the colors,
make sure that you turn off transparency
effects. And under the start menu,
simply go ahead and copy my settings if
you want your start menu to look
cleaner. Then go back to home, go into
the accounts, and make sure that you log
out of your Microsoft account and log
into a local account because Microsoft
accounts will actually track a lot of
the activity and which can have a lot of
privacy concerns as well. So, I highly
recommend that you use a local account
instead of a Microsoft account. Going
back to home, let's go to gaming. Make
sure that the game bar is turned off and
the game mode is turned on. Let's go to
ease of access. And inside of here, I
simply want you to turn off all of these
options if you want the most performance
out of your system. But for me, I just
like to keep them on for a cleaner
Windows look. Go back to home. Let's go
to search. This is just a personal
preference, but I like to set it to
moderate. And make sure that the history
is turned off and clear any device
search history. Then go to searching
windows and set the index to classic. Go
back to home. And that's basically it.
Now we can close out of the settings and
let's go into the sound settings. Inside
of here, what I want you to do is select
your playback device, right click on it,
go into properties, and then click on
the special sound. Make sure that this
is turned off. Under the advanced, set
it to the highest available quality, and
then uncheck both of these check boxes,
then hit okay. You can go ahead and do
the same thing for your recording, and
that would be it. Then moving on to
device manager. There are a lot of
devices that I want you to disable. The
first one are the ones that don't
actually have a driver or the Windows
does not recognize them. Simply right
click on them and click on disable
device. Hit yes. Then do the same thing
for all of the other ones. These devices
are completely useless since Windows is
not recognizing them anyway. So you
might as well simply disable them. Then
go ahead and open up the devices to
disable text and simply find all of
these devices and then go ahead and
disable them. Most of these will
actually be under the system devices. So
for example, the NDIS virtual network
adapter. I actually have it here. Let's
go ahead and disable high precision
event timer which is already disabled.
Also go ahead and disable composite bus
enumerator. Hit yes. And if you cannot
find any of these devices that are
listed here inside of your device
manager. Nothing to fret about. You can
actually go ahead and skip that one and
disable the ones that you actually do
find inside of here. Next, I'm going to
go ahead and disable the umbus root bus
enumerator. Also disable the
programmable interrupt controller. Then
disable remote desktop direct services.
It says that it's going to need a
restart. So, I'm going to click on no
and maybe disable it later on. So, yeah,
just simply go ahead and make sure that
all of these devices or at least the
ones that you can find are actually
disabled. And then what you want to do
is disable power saving on all of your
mouse and keyboard ones. For that, you
would need to go ahead and open up the
devices. For example, this one. Right
click on them, click on properties, go
to power management, and make sure that
both of these are turned off. Hit okay.
Do the same thing for any of the other
ones that you find. Uncheck this. Then
do the same thing for the keyboard one.
Go to properties, power management. Make
sure that both of these are turned off
and then hit okay. And that's basically
it inside of the device manager. Let's
go ahead and move on to the keyboard and
mouse settings. The first thing that I
want you to do is open up the keyboard
settings and make sure that this is set
to the second one and this is set to
fast. Hit okay. Then open up the mouse
settings. And inside of here, what you
want to do is go into the pointer
options. Make sure that the scheme is
set to none. But since I have replaced
it with a custom one, this is the one
that I'm using. But the important one is
actually pointer options. Make sure that
the pointer speed is set to the sixth
dot. So that would be 1 2 3 4 5 and six.
And make sure that enhanced pointer
precision is actually turned off. Hit
apply. Hit okay. And that's it. Now
there are a lot of other things that you
can do with your keyboard settings. If
you open up this keyboard text, you can
see that we have already done this. But
if your keyboard supports a software,
what you want to do is install that
software. Then simply go ahead and go to
lighting. Make sure that it is turned
off. And then you can simply go ahead
and set any of the other settings like
here. for example, setting the hertz to
highest. But since I don't have that
option, I'm simply going to close out of
this. And then you can delete the
software afterwards. Then moving on to
the mouse settings. If you open this up,
we have already done this. And then we
want to go ahead and install the mouse
software. If your mouse supports it,
then simply go ahead and set the RGB to
off. Go to DPI. Make sure that the DPI
is 1600 and the report rate is set to
1,000 Hz. Then simply hit apply. For
some reason, setting it to 1,600 DPI
actually works the best, not just for
the input delay, but also for the mouse
movement. Then simply hit okay. And now
you can uninstall this software as well.
Then moving on to the registry files.
And these are the keyboard Q sizes and
the mouse Q sizes. Now I have made a
full detailed video on what they
actually do and what should be the best
value. But inside of this video I have
actually provided you guys with the best
value that would work with most of your
PCs. You can simply right click on it
and click on edit to check what that is
and that is 1E or 30 in decimal. So what
you want to do is simply go ahead and
apply this one. Then do the same thing
for this one. And now you should have
the best keyboard and mouse input
latency. Moving on to the pack, let's go
ahead and move on to the network tweaks.
Inside of here, the first thing that you
want to do is open up device manager.
Then go on to the network adapters and
make sure that you only have the ones
that you use enabled. So for me, my main
adapter is this one. And these three are
actually used for my virtual machines.
So all of these are actually the ones
that are useless. So I'm going to simply
right click on them and click on disable
device. Hit yes, and then go ahead and
do the same thing for all of these vanip
ports.
And now that I'm done disabling all of
these devices, what we want to do is
actually change our network settings. So
I'm going to right click on my main
adapter, go to properties inside of
here. Simply going to go ahead and go to
advanced and then open up the network
adapter settings.png. But these are all
of the options that you would have. So
simply go ahead and copy all of these.
And you would also have the power
management option right here. So simply
go ahead and make sure that all of those
power saving features are unchecked.
Then hit okay. Then you can close out of
this. Close out of this as well. Then
open up the network settings. Inside of
here, you would want to click on change
adapter options. For Windows 11, it
would be something like additional
adapter options or something like that.
Then right click on your main network
adapter. Click on properties. And inside
of here, go ahead and uncheck client for
Microsoft network. Also uncheck VMbridge
protocol if you actually don't use
VMware. Uncheck file printer sharing.
Also go ahead and uncheck the LLTP
protocol. Uncheck the Microsoft network
adapter multiplexer protocol. and also
uncheck the link layer topology ones,
both of these. Then go ahead and double
click on the IPv4 protocol. Inside of
here, go ahead and click on use the
following DNS server addresses. And I'm
going to be showing you how to actually
use these values. For that, you would
need to go down to your start menu and
search for cmd. Then go ahead and run it
as admin. Now, what you would do inside
of here is simply type in ping, then
1.1.1.1,
and then hit enter. This is going to
send and receive packets and it's going
to show you the minimum, the maximum and
the average latency. Then next, what you
want to do is simply go ahead and ping
the Google DNS. So that would be ping
8.8.8.8.
Then hit enter once more. And from both
of these, as you can see that my average
latency for the Cloudflare DNS that is
1.1.1
is actually a lot less compared to the
Google one. So that is the reason I'm
actually using the Cloudflare DNS here.
Now, in your case, if you actually have
less average latency on Google DNS, then
you would, of course, to go ahead and
type in the Google DNS. But in my case,
of course, it's the Cloudflare one. So,
I'm going to use that. Now, in the
alternate DNS, if you're using the
Cloudflare one, you would go ahead and
type in 1.0.0.1
and then click on okay. But if your
average latency on the Google one was
actually better than Cloudflare, then
you would of course want to use that one
inside of the preferred DNS. And for the
alternate DNS, I would actually throw it
up on the screen. And you can simply
copy that one. Once you have done this,
simply hit okay. Click on okay once
again. And now you can close out of
this. Moving on to some of the network
tweaks. Simply right click on it, run it
as administrator. Now keep in mind that
your network may disconnect for just a
bit and it would be back once again.
Once everything is done, simply right
click on TCP optimizer and run it as
administrator. Now most of the modern
games actually use UDP, but actually
optimizing TCP still has an impact on
some of those exchanges that occur over
the TCP rather than UDP. So once it is
open, you want to go ahead and bump this
all the way up to the maximum. Then
click on custom and simply go ahead and
copy all of my settings. So that would
be normal for autotuning, disabled for
windows scaling, cubic for congestion
control, and then receiving RSS and RSC
should be disabled. TTL should be set to
64. ECN should be enabled. Check some
offloading should be set to disabled.
Same thing for this. Same thing for LSO.
Go ahead and disable it. Keep this
enabled. And then go ahead and move on
to the advanced settings. Here you can
go ahead and pause the video and copy
all of these settings. Now for the
network throttling index, it should
automatically be disabled, but if it
isn't, go ahead and set it to disabled.
And system responsiveness should be set
to gaming zero. For the network memory
allocation, make sure that this is set
to default and the size is set to
optimize 3. Max user port should be set
to 65534
and time should be set to 30. Then once
you have done all of this, simply hit on
apply changes. Make sure that you create
a backup and click on okay. Your network
may disconnect once more, but that is
completely normal. It would be back up
in a minute. Now, it does say that a
reboot is required, but you don't
actually need it right now. So, simply
click on no. And now you can exit out of
this. Now, both of these are the backups
that you have created. So, you can go
ahead and use them whenever you want.
Also, in case you want to revert any of
these changes, you would go ahead and
run this as admin. Once again, wait for
it to load the settings, then simply
click on Windows default, hit apply
changes, and that's it. Moving on to the
services optimization. Now inside of
here there is the basic folder which I
recommend for most of you guys and this
is by Corev Tech of course what you
would want to do is simply right click
on apply all and run it as
administrator. And if I click on edit
inside of here you can see everything
pretty much that it's going to disable.
And once you have applied this if you
have a hard drive you would want to
enable CIS main. So simply right click
on it and run it as administrator. For
SSD users you can go ahead and skip this
one. And if you want to run any of the
services that you accidentally disabled
using this tweak, you can go ahead and
enable them from here. So for example,
if you actually need sys main once
again, you can go ahead and enable it
from here. If you need Bluetooth, you
can enable it from here. Printer can
also be enabled from here and everything
like that. Now this one is for the basic
users. And if you are an advanced users,
I would recommend go into the advanced
section. Then go ahead and right click
on the disable unnecessary services and
run it as administrator. This batch
script was created by everything tag. So
simply go ahead and type in yes here.
Then click on enter. And the one that I
actually recommend here is actually the
standard one. So you would simply go
ahead and type in standard and then hit
enter. And it will automatically disable
a lot of services, a lot more than
actually the corey one. And the advanced
one is actually going to disable even
more. But that one I don't recommend
since it can actually break a lot of
things. So use the standard one. For the
sake of the video, I'm not going to be
doing it right now. And in case that
anything breaks, you can go into the
default services, open up this text, run
the PowerShell as admin, and then go
ahead and copy all of these and paste it
inside of there and hit enter, and
everything will be set back to default.
You would of course need to restart your
PC for that to take effect. And last but
not the least inside of services is
actually the auto runs. Simply right
click on it and run it as admin. Now, a
lot of people make the mistake of
unchecking everything from the
everything tab because it can be quite
overwhelming. That is the reason we have
so many tabs inside of here. So I
recommend that you go on to log on and
inside of here go ahead and uncheck
anything that you don't want to start
with your Windows. For example, I don't
want FTM to start. I don't want
Microsoft Edge to start, even the Opera
GX. And everything else is looking
pretty good. Moving on to Explorer, go
ahead and skip this one. Internet
Explorer, make sure that you uncheck
both of these. For the schedule to go
ahead and do the same thing. Uncheck
anything that you don't want to start
with your Windows. For example, let's
say I don't want to start park control
every time my Windows starts. So that's
what I'm going to be unchecking. Then go
on to services and inside of here, do
the same thing. Uncheck any of the Adobe
services and check any of the browser
services that you actually don't need.
Same thing for, let's say, Virtual Box,
even Steam. And that's it. Everything
else should be fine. Now you can simply
close out of this and the next time that
you reboot, all of these useless apps
and services and even schedule tasks
will be completely disabled. Not only
improving your boot time, but also the
overall Windows performance. Going back
into the pack, open up the registry
tweaks and inside of here are a bunch of
registry tweaks that you can use. I
won't be explaining every single one of
them since I have already done. But one
important thing that I want to point out
is actually creating a registry backup.
Since the system restore point actually
does not restore the registry. So what
you want to do is go to your start menu
and search for rededit or registry
editor. Simply open it up. Inside of
here, go on to the top, then click on
file, then click on export. Go ahead and
name it backup and save it somewhere
that you can actually find it. So I'm
going to go ahead and save it inside of
the documents and then it should be
backed up. You can close out of this and
start by applying all of these one by
one. So for this what you can do is
simply right click on them and click on
edit to check what it actually does
inside of every single one. So this is
actually going to go ahead and optimize
the lineman server. In layman terms it's
going to optimize the network. So simply
double click on it. Hit yes. Hit okay.
The DVR ones are going to disable game
DVR. GPU energy driver is actually a
useless Windows service. So, we will be
disabling that. Network throttling is
actually already disabled, so you don't
need to really apply it. Disabled driver
searching will make sure that the
Windows does not download and search
drivers with Windows updates because
they're completely useless. Disable
prefetch will go ahead and disable the
pre-fetching service for Windows, which
keeps piling up all of the junk files
and data. Then, full screen fix will
make sure that your games run in
exclusive full screen. Hover time is
going to decrease the mouse hover time
which you can see right here that if I
hover over something it shows up this
little tool tip. Then memory management
optimizations. If I right click on them,
click on edit. As you can see, it's
going to go ahead and disable a lot of
things such as the pool usage maximum
size as well as non-page pool kota
launch system cache. Then menu show
delay is actually the speed with which
the rightclick menu shows up. Monitor
latency tolerance will optimize the DXG
kernel and priority optimizations are
some old optimizations that actually
don't make too much of a different
nowadays. But I still do recommend that
you go ahead and use them. So once you
have applied all of these, you can go
ahead and open up the dynamic pate. TXT.
Now this one is actually dependent on
your GPU. So we will need to apply this
one manually. For this, what you want to
do is go ahead and open up the device
manager. Once you have opened it up, go
on to the display adapters, expand it
down, right click on your graphics card,
go to properties, then go to details and
go to class GUID. Go ahead and copy this
from here. Now, what you want to do is
go down to your start menu and search
for registry editor and open it up.
Inside of here, make sure that you
expand down the HQ local machine. Click
on system, then click on edit, and click
on find. Then go ahead and paste it
inside of here and then click on find
next. Once it has found this, simply
expand it down. Click on 000000 or 00001
whatever this top folder is. And inside
of here what you want to do is right
click click on new and then create a
Dword 32-bit value. You would want to
name it disable dynamic P state and
since I have already created this one I
already have this. So once you have
created it simply double click on it to
open it up and set its value to one.
Then hit okay. Now you can close out of
this and out of all of these as well.
Then there is the RAM optimization. Now
what this will do is actually combine
all of the SVC services together so you
can have lower number of processes. So
in my case I'm using 16 gigs of RAM. So
this is the one that I will apply. In
your case, simply go ahead and apply the
registry file that corresponds to your
RAM size. And if you don't know what
your RAM size is, right click on the
taskbar, go to task manager, go to
performance, and under memory here, you
can see that I have 16 gigs. Moving back
to the pack and open up the cmd tweaks.
Inside of here, the first folder is for
the drive tweaks and this is for your
storage. If you're using a hard drive,
go ahead and apply this one. If you're
using an SSD, simply go ahead and right
click on this one and run it as
administrator. What these will do is
actually optimize the lost access and
overall improve the read and write
speeds of your disc drives. Then go back
and apply the BCD tweaks. These are all
of the oldtimer tweaks. If I click on
edit as you can see. So simply right
click on them and run it as
administrator. Press any key to
continue. Do the same thing for disable
hibernation. This is going to go ahead
and disable hibernation. Disable memory
compression is actually another useful
tweak. And if you want to learn what it
does, I have made a complete in-depth
video on it which I will be leaving down
in the description. Then disable process
mitigations is another one that I highly
recommend. And then there is the disable
Windows tracking and spyware which we
will be doing through softwares later on
as well. But we want to disable
completely everything. So right click on
it and run it as administrator. And then
it's going to go ahead and go through
all of these registry files and schedule
tasks everything related to Windows that
is useless and disable that. So then
press any key to continue. And then we
can go back to Windows tweakers. Now,
inside of here, let's go on to the
ultimate windows tweaker first. And if
you are on Windows 10, you would want to
use the 4.7 version. And if you are on
Windows 11, you want to use the 5.1
version. And I have also provided these
config files for both Windows 10 and
Windows 11, which I will be showing you
how you can use. So, in my case, I'm
going to go ahead and open up the 4.7,
right click on the Ultimate Tweaker, and
run it as admin. The process is
completely the same for the Windows 11
too. Now, of course, inside of here, you
can run the system file checker utility
as well as the repair windows system
image, but you only need to run these
once in a while, and I have already ran
them, so it's really up to you. Let's
move on to customization. Inside of
here, you can go ahead and disable start
animations, but all of these settings
inside of the customization are actually
personal preference. But the things that
we are concerned about are actually the
performance. So, make sure that all of
these are set to 1,000 like this.
Disable edge tab pre-loading. Increase
priority of IRQ8. Turn off search
indexer if you don't want to use it. But
I actually think it does not make that
much of a difference. Always unload DLS.
Yes. Disable Windows time service. Then
go ahead disable tablet input service.
Disable prefetch and disable super
fetch. If you actually use a hard drive,
then I would recommend that you go ahead
and uncheck both of these and then
disable Microsoft Edge pre-loading. So
go ahead and copy all of these. And once
you have done all of this, simply click
on apply tweaks. Then moving on to
security and privacy. Then inside of
security and privacy, go ahead and copy
these settings. More specifically, you
want to go ahead and disable one drive
and turn off user tracking. Now in my
case, I have also disabled Windows
Defender, but I wouldn't recommend this
to most of you guys who go ahead and
surf the internet without precaution. It
does improve the performance, but of
course at the cost of security. So
simply go ahead and uncheck this if you
don't want to disable Windows Defender.
Then under the privacy, simply go ahead
and turn everything off except for
password reveal button if you really use
it. But since I don't use this, I'm
going to go ahead and disable everything
inside of here. And once you have copied
all of these, simply go ahead and click
on apply tweaks once more. And now you
can close out of this. It does say that
you will need to restart your PC. And we
will be restarting it later on. Another
thing, if you want to actually use my
profile, you can go ahead and come to
the additional point. Then click on
import. Then go ahead and go into the
Windows tweaker configs and simply go
ahead and double click on this. And then
simply go ahead and click on yes if you
want to apply them. Right now I'm going
to go ahead and hit no. And that's it.
You actually don't need the profiles.
You can simply go ahead and copy what I
just did. Moving on to Windows privacy
dashboard. Double click on it and run
this as administrator. Now, once it
opens up, go on to the privacy. Then
click on this little arrow and click on
disable all. This is going to go ahead
and disable everything up here. But for
the advanced one, you will of course
need to go ahead and disable everything
manually in case that it does not.
Simply go ahead and turn all of these
off and go ahead and leave the Windows
update on. Once you have done that, go
ahead and open up the blocker. Then
inside of the blocker, for the blocking
method, select the Windows Defender
firewall and then simply go ahead and
click on spy as well as extra. And it's
going to disable all of those telemetry.
And then inside of here, you can go
ahead and once again uninstall anything
that you don't need. For example, I
don't need Microsoft tips. I also don't
need mixed reality portal. So, I'm going
to go ahead and select those. Click on
delete selected. And it's going to
completely remove those apps. Now, I can
close out of this. Go back into the
pack. And now we need to run the odo
shutup 10 as administrator. So inside of
here, go ahead and click on actions and
click on apply only the recommended
settings. And once all of those are
applied, it might say that you should be
creating a system restore point, but we
have already created a system restore
point. So you don't actually need that.
Once done, you can go ahead and close
out of this. Go back into the pack and
go into the cleanup folder. Now inside
of here, we have a lot of cleanups to
do. So this is the folder that you want
to keep in case you want to keep
cleaning up your windows from time to
time. First thing is we're going to be
going ahead and deleting all of the log
files. And trust me, these can really
build up. So, right click on them, run
it as administrator, and then it's going
to go ahead and delete all of the
Windows log files and the log files
created by other softwares as well. So,
press any key to continue. And then
there is the delete temporary files.
This is going to go ahead and clear out
the temp folders. So, right click on it,
run it as administrator, then press any
key to continue. Then the next one is
delete Windows update cache. So, right
click, run it as administrator. It's
going to first stop the Windows update
service and then it's going to go ahead
and clean up that. The batch file was
made by Trimmers, so credit to him. Then
press any key to continue. Then finally,
there is the device cleanup. So, simply
right click on it and run it as
administrator. It's going to list all of
the devices that were once connected to
the system but are no longer there. So,
what you want to do is go to devices,
select all, and then once again go to
devices and click on remove selected.
This is going to clean up all of the
devices. And once done, you can close
out of this. The last one is the malware
bites adear cleaner. So right click on
it and run it as admin. Then what you
want to do is simply click on scan now
and it's going to find any of the adares
or potentially unwanted softwares that
you can actually remove from this
interface. So click on scan now, wait
for it to complete and then go ahead and
remove anything that it detects. So as
you can see that no items were detected
on this PC and we can skip the basic
repair and that's it. Now we can move on
to the next step and that is disable
Windows Defender. Now, this is only for
the responsible people who actually know
what they're doing on the internet and
who don't put random software on their
PCs. So, if you are not one of those
guys and you want the maximum security,
then simply go ahead and skip this step.
But for those of you guys who do want to
disable Windows Defender, all you would
need to do is simply right click on the
power run, run it as administrator, and
then simply go ahead and drag this onto
this, run the file, then hit yes, and
then hit okay. Then do the same thing
for smart screen. Drag it on here, run
the file, hit yes, and then hit okay.
And now you can restart your PC and
everything will be disabled. Moving on
to the BIOS settings and this one is
once again for advanced users. Now this
is a shortcut on how you can go into the
BIOS. You would simply go ahead and
click on restart now which I have
actually given the picture for here as
well. So you would simply click on
restart now and then go into the UEFI
firmware settings. This is going to load
you into the BIOS. Now for the AMD BIOS,
this is the setting that you want to
change. You want to set the XMP to
profile one. This is going to make sure
that your RAM runs at the advertised
speeds. And for the Intel settings, you
would of course want to set the XMPP to
profile one. You can also go ahead and
copy the rest of the settings from here.
And if you want a detailed BIOS guide,
then I will link my video down below in
the description. Now, the last thing
that you want to do is, of course, go
ahead and restart your computer and
enjoy the ultimately optimized Windows
experience.
[Music]